.. _mpu6050:

=======
MPU6050
=======

Contributed by Shriyans.

The InvenSense MPU6050 is a high-performance 6-axis MotionTracking device that combines
a 3-axis gyroscope and a 3-axis accelerometer on the same silicon die, communicating
over an I2C serial bus.

The driver uses the :doc:`uorb
</components/drivers/special/sensors/sensors_uorb>` interface.

Application Programming Interface
=================================

.. code-block:: c

   #include <nuttx/sensors/mpu6050.h>

The MPU6050 registration function allows the driver to be registered as a uORB
lower-half sensor driver. Registering this driver will cause two separate uORB
topics to appear under ``/dev/uorb/``:

- ``sensor_accel<n>`` - Accelerometer topic reporting linear acceleration in m/s² and temperature.
- ``sensor_gyro<n>`` - Gyroscope topic reporting angular velocity in rad/s and temperature.

Where ``n`` is the device number passed during device registration (e.g., 0).

.. code-block:: c

   /* Example uORB sensor registration on I2C bus 0 at default address 0x68 */

   int err = mpu6050_register(0, i2c_master, MPU6050_ADDR_LOW);
   if (err < 0)
     {
       syslog(LOG_ERR, "Failed to register MPU6050: %d\n", err);
     }

Configuration Options
=====================

- ``CONFIG_SENSORS_MPU6050`` - Enables uORB driver support for the InvenSense MPU6050 6-axis MotionTracker over I2C.

Supported Operations
====================

The MPU6050 uORB driver supports standard sensor operations (`activate`, `fetch`,
`set_interval`, `batch`, and `control`). It acquires simultaneous 3-axis accelerometer
and 3-axis gyroscope samples, applies appropriate scale conversions, and publishes them
to their respective uORB topics.

Example Usage (`uorb_listener`)
-------------------------------

Once registered on target hardware, the MPU6050 topics can be verified directly from the
NuttX shell (NSH) using the `uorb_listener` utility:

.. code-block:: bash

   nsh> uorb_listener sensor_accel0 5
   TOPIC: sensor_accel0 #0
   timestamp: 12345678
   x: 0.0210
   y: 0.0035
   z: 9.8066
   temperature: 25.4000

   nsh> uorb_listener sensor_gyro0 5
   TOPIC: sensor_gyro0 #0
   timestamp: 12345680
   x: 0.0012
   y: -0.0004
   z: 0.0001
   temperature: 25.4000
